iota-bridge/README.md, before:

# IOTA Bridge

The *IOTA Bridge* is a REST service for messages transferred between the following list of actors:

* *Management Console*
* All kinds of *Sensor* applications like *ESP32 Sensor* and *x86/PC Sensor*
* *IOTA Tangle* nodes
* Services accessing the LoRaWAN AP-Server (a.k.a. *Application Server Connector*)

It provides a REST API to:
* Send streams packages that will be attached to the tangle using an IOTA Node
  or receive existing streams packages from the tangle
* Send remote control commands from a *x86/PC Sensor* or *Management Console*
  application to a *Sensor* application
* Send remote control confirmations from a *Sensor* application to the *x86/PC Sensor*
  or *Management Console* application
* Receive IotaBridgeRequest packages containing one of the above described REST API requests as
  a binary serialized package which can be used to interact with the *IOTA Bridge* e.g. via LoRaWAN

## Prerequisites and Build
Please have a look at the [Prerequisites](../README.md#prerequisites)
and [Build](../README.md#build) section of the main README of this repository.

## IOTA-Bridge Console CLI

In addition to the common CLI options described in the
[CLI API section of the main README file](../README.md#common-cli-options)
the *IOTA-Bridge* offers the following CLI arguments.

    -l, --listener-ip-address <LISTENER_IP_ADDRESS_PORT>
            IP address and port to listen to.
            Example: listener-ip-address="192.168.47.11:50000"

    -n, --node <NODE_URL>
            The IP or domain name of the SUSEE Node to connect to.
            Set this value to the domain name or static ip address of the SUSEE Node
            which provides the IOTA Node, inx-collector and inx-poi web services.
            See folder 'susee-node' for more details.
            
            The IOTA Node and inx-collector API will be accessed using their
            standard ports (14265 and 9030) automatically.
            
            The default settings will connect to the private tangle that can be run
            for development purposes (see folder 'susee-node' for more details).
            
            Examples:
                --node="195.90.200.153"
                -n="example.com"
             [default: 127.0.0.1]

#### Error Handling
The `--error-handling` argument can be used to control the handling of SUSEE-Node service
errors. For more details please see the
[IOTA Bridge Error Handling](#iota-bridge-error-handling-for-lorawan-node-endpoints)
section below.
             
    -e, --error-handling <ERROR_HANDLING>
            Defines how errors occurring during 'lorawan-rest/binary_request'
            endpoint processing are handled.
            
            Existing values are:
                always-return-errors,
                    All internal errors are immediately returned to the client.
                    The client is responsible to handle the error for example
                    by doing a failover to another iota-bridge instance or
                    by buffering the payload and later retrial.
                    Use this option if there are multiple redundant iota-bridge
                    instances run.
                buffer-messages-on-validation-errors
                    In case the validation of a send message fails, the
                    iota-bridge will buffer the message and will later retry
                    to send the message via the tangle.
                    This option is only suitable if only one iota-bridge
                    instance is run.
            
            
            Internal errors of the iota-bridge are provided via http error status codes:
            
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
                | Error Type                     | HTTP Error Status           |
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
                | *SUSEE Node* health error      | 503 - Service Unavailable   |
                | Message send validation error  | 507 - Insufficient Storage  |
                | Other error                    | 500 - Internal Server Error |
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
            
            For more details regarding the different error types please see the
            iota-bridge Readme.md file.
             [default: always-return-errors]         

#### Send messages not using *IOTA Tangle*

In case of an IOTA protocol update in the IOTA mainnet or Shimmernet, the deployed
*IOTA Bridge* will not be able to communicate with an *IOTA Node* anymore.
The `--do-not-use-tangle-transport` argument can be used to bypass the *IOTA Node*
and to send the Sensor messages directly to the deployed
[INX Collector](../susee-node/README.md#susee-node-resources).
This option may be used as a workaround until the new protocol version has been integrated in the
*IOTA Bridge* and other *susee-streams-poc* applications (in other words: Until the
*susee-streams-poc* has been updated to the new protocol version).

Using the `--do-not-use-tangle-transport` argument means that no 
[Proof of Inclusion Validation](../README.md#proof-of-inclusion-or-why-is-iota-distributed-ledger-used)
can be done later on. 

    -t, --do-not-use-tangle-transport
            If this argument is NOT specified, the IOTA tangle
            will be used for Sensor message transport.
            If this argument is specified, the messages will be send directly
            via the inx-collector to the database.
            
            Example for sending messages directly to the inx-collector:
            
                    ./iota-bridge --do-not-use-tangle-transport -n="my-susee-node-domain.com"


## IOTA Bridge REST API

Most of the REST API is used internally by the accompanying susee-streams-poc applications.

The only endpoints relevant for public use are the following:

* <a href="#lorawan-rest-endpoints">/lorawan-rest</a> <br>
  Post binary IotaBridgeRequest packages received e.g. via LoRaWAN
* <a href="#lorawan-node-endpoints">/lorawan-node</a> <br>
  Manage LoRaWAN nodes (Sensors) cached by the *IOTA Bridge* to allow compressed Streams message usage

### lorawan-rest Endpoints

IotaBridgeRequest packages can be posted to the *IOTA Bridge* using the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoints

To demonstrate the usage of the API here is a cURL example:
```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.0:50000/lorawan-rest/binary_request?deveui=4711' \
         --header 'Content-Type: application/octet-stream' \
         --data-binary '@request_parts.bin'
```
The folder [../test/iota-bridge](../test/iota-bridge) contains several curl script files that can be executed
to send requests to a running *IOTA Bridge* listening to local host. The above given example can be found in the
file [curl-lorawan_rest-binary_request.sh](../test/iota-bridge/curl-lorawan_rest-binary_request.sh) in the
test/iota-bridge folder.

**Underlying usecase:**<br>
Given you are using the streams-poc-lib function
[send_message()](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/components/streams-poc-lib/include/streams_poc_lib.h)
in your C code you will receive a binary package via the `lorawan_send_callback` function that you need
to specify to call send_message(). You'll transmit this binary package e.g. via LoRaWAN. In your LoRaWAN Application
Server you can use the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoint of the *IOTA Bridge* to hand the binary package over to it. 

The body of the resulting HTTP Resonse needs to be returned to the *ESP32 Sensor* via the `response_callback`
function that is provided by the streams-poc-lib.

Have a look into the following documentation for more details:

* Interface of the streams-poc-lib: 
  [streams_poc_lib.h](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/components/streams-poc-lib/include/streams_poc_lib.h)
* Readme of the [streams-poc-lib](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/README.md)

The *AppServer Connector Mockup Tool* implements this process but uses a WIFI
socket connection instead of a LoRaWAN connection. For further details please
have a look into the
[*AppServer Connector Mockup Tool* README](../app-srv-connector-mock/README.md).

### IOTA Bridge Error Handling for lorawan-node Endpoints

The `--error-handling` argument described above can be used to specify
how internal errors of the *SUSEE Node* are handled when
the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoint is used.

There are three
types of errors which are indicated with specific http
error status values:

| Error Type                     | HTTP Error Status           |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| *SUSEE Node* health error      | 503 - Service Unavailable   |
| Message send validation error  | 507 - Insufficient Storage  |
| Other error                    | 500 - Internal Server Error |


More details regarding these errors can be found in the following sections.

#### SUSEE-Node health error

Before any access to the IOTA Tangle is processed the *IOTA Bridge*
performs a service health check for the following services:
* *IOTA Node*
* *INX Collector*
* *MINIO* Object Database.

If any of these services is not healthy the
*IOTA Bridge* will return a `503 - Service Unavailable` http error
for a `/lorawan-rest` request.

#### Message send validation error

After a *Sensor* message has been send via the *IOTA Tangle*
the resulting block and it's POI must be archived by the *INX Collector*
in the *MINIO* object database. In case of errors the block might not
have been stored in the *MINIO* database.

To make sure that the *Sensor* message has been successfully send and the
resulting block exists in the *MINIO* database, the *IOTA Bridge* will validate
the block existence after each message send process.

In case this validation fails the behavior of the *IOTA Bridge* depends on
the `--error-handling` argument:

**--error-handling = always-return-errors**

The *IOTA Bridge* will return a
`507 - Insufficient Storage` http error
for a `/lorawan-rest` request.

Use this option if there are multiple redundant iota-bridge
instances run.

For production environments we recommend to run at least two *SUSEE Nodes*,
each providing an independently working *IOTA Bridge* instance.
The available instances can be run behind a load balancer or the
*Application Server Connector* can do a simple failover.

**--error-handling = buffer-messages-on-validation-errors**

The *IOTA Bridge* will buffer the *Sensor* message in its local SQLite database
and will try to send the message in the future.

The *IOTA Bridge* then will respond with a
`200 - OK` http status to the `/lorawan-rest` request.

This option is only suitable if only one iota-bridge
instance is run for test purposes.

### lorawan-node Endpoints
To allow [compressed Streams message](../sensor/README.md#deveuis-and-compressed-streams-messages)
usage, the *IOTA Bridge* stores LoRaWAN nodes (a.k.a. Sensors in the SUSEE project)
in its <a href="#caching-of-lorawan-deveuis-and-streams-channel-meta-data">local SQLite3 database</a>.

The stored Sensors can be managed by the following API endpoints.

##### CREATE_NODE
Create a *Sensor* entry in the caching database.

    POST/lorawan-node/{devEui} ? channel-id = {channelId}

    devEui:     LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    channelId:  Streams channel-id of the Sensor

Examples:<br>

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711?channel-id=12345678 <br>
  Status 200 OK
  
##### GET_NODE
Query data of a specific Sensor

    GET /lorawan-node/{devEui}
    
    devEui: LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    
Examples:<br>
Expecting that a Sensor with dev_eui 4711 is stored in the database.

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/9876 <br>
  Status 404 Not Found<br>
  Body:
  
        Not Found
        Description: lorawan_node not found
  
* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711 <br>
  Status 200 OK<br>
  Body:
  
      {"dev_eui":"4711","streams_channel_id":"12345678"}
  
##### IS_NODE_KNOWN
Query if a specific Sensor is known by the *IOTA Bridge*

    GET /lorawan-node/{devEui} ? exist
    
    devEui: LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    
Examples:<br>
Expecting that a Sensor with dev_eui 4711 is stored in the database.

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/9876?exist <br>
  Status 404 Not Found<br>
  Body:
  
        Not Found
        Description: lorawan_node not found
  
* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711?exist <br>
  Status 200 OK<br>
  Body:
  
      1

## Caching of LoRaWAN DevEUIs and Streams Channel Meta Data

As been descibed in the
[Sensor README](../sensor/README.md#deveuis-and-compressed-streams-messages)
compressed streams messages can be used to
reduce the LoRaWAN payload size.
The usage of compressed messages is only possible after one or more normal streams messages have
been send. The *IOTA Bridge* then learns which Streams Channel ID is used
by which *Sensor* where the *Sensor* is identified by its 64 bit LoraWAN DevEUI.
Additionally the [initialization count](../sensor/README.md#initialization-count)
is stored to allow [*Sensor* reinitialization detection](../test/README.md#sensor-reinitialization).

The mapping of LoraWAN DevEUI to Streams Channel meta data is stored in a local SQLite3 database.
The database file "iota-bridge.sqlite3" is stored in the directory where the
*IOTA-Bridge* is started.

To review the data stored in the local SQLite3 database we recommend the
[DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) application.

## Use in Production

A network of LoRaWAN connected *Sensors* can consist of multiple millions of *Sensors*.
Given these *Sensors* would send messages every 15 minutes this leads to ~1.11 K request/s
per million users.

Despite all limitations that are caused by the available
[performance of the IOTA mainnet](https://blog.iota.org/chrysalis-iota-1-5-phase-1-now-live-on-mainnet-958ec4a4a415/),
this means that in a large scale scenario the *IOTA Bridge* would have to run in an industrial
web server tech stack including load-balancers, auto-scaling and so on.

In case [compressed streams messages](#caching-of-lorawan-deveuis-and-streams-channel-meta-data)
are used the *IOTA Bridge* needs an appropriately fast central or distributed
high availability data storage solution like (e.g. mariadb, postgres, mongodb, couchdb, ...).

Alternatively to handle thousands of requests per second using a high performance *IOTA Bridge*
the service could run on edge devices to handle only dozens or hundreds of requests in a specific
region resp. sector oft the LoRaWAN network.

Commit message:

Updated test/README and several documentation enhancements

iota-bridge/README.md, after:

# IOTA Bridge

The *IOTA Bridge* is a REST service for messages transferred between the following list of actors:

* *Management Console*
* All kinds of *Sensor* applications like *Streams POC Library* test application and *x86/PC Sensor*
* *IOTA Tangle* nodes
* Services accessing the LoRaWAN AP-Server (a.k.a. *Application Server Connector*)

It provides a REST API to:
* Send streams packages that will be attached to the tangle using an IOTA Node
  or receive existing streams packages from the tangle
* Send remote control commands from a *x86/PC Sensor* or *Management Console*
  application to a *Sensor* application
* Send remote control confirmations from a *Sensor* application to the *x86/PC Sensor*
  or *Management Console* application
* Receive IotaBridgeRequest packages containing one of the above described REST API requests as
  a binary serialized package which can be used to interact with the *IOTA Bridge* e.g. via LoRaWAN

## Prerequisites and Build
Please have a look at the [Prerequisites](../README.md#build-prerequisites)
and [Build](../README.md#build) section of the main README of this repository.

## IOTA-Bridge Console CLI

In addition to the common CLI options described in the
[CLI API section of the main README file](../README.md#common-cli-options)
the *IOTA-Bridge* offers the following CLI arguments.

    -l, --listener-ip-address <LISTENER_IP_ADDRESS_PORT>
            IP address and port to listen to.
            Example: listener-ip-address="192.168.47.11:50000"

    -n, --node <NODE_URL>
            The IP or domain name of the SUSEE Node to connect to.
            Set this value to the domain name or static ip address of the SUSEE Node
            which provides the IOTA Node, inx-collector and inx-poi web services.
            See folder 'susee-node' for more details.
            
            The IOTA Node and inx-collector API will be accessed using their
            standard ports (14265 and 9030) automatically.
            
            The default settings will connect to the private tangle that can be run
            for development purposes (see folder 'susee-node' for more details).
            
            Examples:
                --node="195.90.200.153"
                -n="example.com"
             [default: 127.0.0.1]

#### Error Handling
The `--error-handling` argument can be used to control the handling of SUSEE-Node service
errors. For more details please see the
[IOTA Bridge Error Handling](#iota-bridge-error-handling-for-lorawan-node-endpoints)
section below.
             
    -e, --error-handling <ERROR_HANDLING>
            Defines how errors occurring during 'lorawan-rest/binary_request'
            endpoint processing are handled.
            
            Existing values are:
                always-return-errors,
                    All internal errors are immediately returned to the client.
                    The client is responsible to handle the error for example
                    by doing a failover to another iota-bridge instance or
                    by buffering the payload and later retrial.
                    Use this option if there are multiple redundant iota-bridge
                    instances run.
                buffer-messages-on-validation-errors
                    In case the validation of a send message fails, the
                    iota-bridge will buffer the message and will later retry
                    to send the message via the tangle.
                    This option is only suitable if only one iota-bridge
                    instance is run.
            
            
            Internal errors of the iota-bridge are provided via http error status codes:
            
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
                | Error Type                     | HTTP Error Status           |
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
                | *SUSEE Node* health error      | 503 - Service Unavailable   |
                | Message send validation error  | 507 - Insufficient Storage  |
                | Other error                    | 500 - Internal Server Error |
                | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
            
            For more details regarding the different error types please see the
            iota-bridge Readme.md file.
             [default: always-return-errors]         

#### Send messages not using *IOTA Tangle*

In case of an IOTA protocol update in the IOTA mainnet or Shimmernet, the deployed
*IOTA Bridge* will not be able to communicate with an *IOTA Node* anymore.
The `--do-not-use-tangle-transport` argument can be used to bypass the *IOTA Node*
and to send the Sensor messages directly to the deployed
[INX Collector](../susee-node/README.md#susee-node-resources).
This option may be used as a workaround until the new protocol version has been integrated in the
*IOTA Bridge* and other *susee-streams-poc* applications (in other words: Until the
*susee-streams-poc* has been updated to the new protocol version).

Using the `--do-not-use-tangle-transport` argument means that no 
[Proof of Inclusion Validation](../README.md#proof-of-inclusion-or-why-is-iota-distributed-ledger-used)
can be done later on. 

    -t, --do-not-use-tangle-transport
            If this argument is NOT specified, the IOTA tangle
            will be used for Sensor message transport.
            If this argument is specified, the messages will be send directly
            via the inx-collector to the database.
            
            Example for sending messages directly to the inx-collector:
            
                    ./iota-bridge --do-not-use-tangle-transport -n="my-susee-node-domain.com"


## IOTA Bridge REST API

Most of the REST API is used internally by the accompanying susee-streams-poc applications.

The only endpoints relevant for public use are the following:

* <a href="#lorawan-rest-endpoints">/lorawan-rest</a> <br>
  Post binary IotaBridgeRequest packages received e.g. via LoRaWAN
* <a href="#lorawan-node-endpoints">/lorawan-node</a> <br>
  Manage LoRaWAN nodes (Sensors) cached by the *IOTA Bridge* to allow compressed Streams message usage

### lorawan-rest Endpoints

IotaBridgeRequest packages can be posted to the *IOTA Bridge* using the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoints

To demonstrate the usage of the API here is a cURL example:
```bash
    curl --location --request POST 'http://127.0.0.0:50000/lorawan-rest/binary_request?deveui=4711' \
         --header 'Content-Type: application/octet-stream' \
         --data-binary '@request_parts.bin'
```
The folder [../test/iota-bridge](../test/iota-bridge) contains several curl script files that can be executed
to send requests to a running *IOTA Bridge* listening to local host. The above given example can be found in the
file [curl-lorawan_rest-binary_request.sh](../test/iota-bridge/curl-lorawan_rest-binary_request.sh) in the
test/iota-bridge folder.

**Underlying usecase:**<br>
Given you are using the streams-poc-lib function
[send_message()](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/components/streams-poc-lib/include/streams_poc_lib.h)
in your C code you will receive a binary package via the `lorawan_send_callback` function that you need
to specify to call send_message(). You'll transmit this binary package e.g. via LoRaWAN. In your LoRaWAN Application
Server you can use the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoint of the *IOTA Bridge* to hand the binary package over to it. 

The body of the resulting HTTP Resonse needs to be returned to your *Sensor* Application
which then needs to transmit it to the streams-poc-lib via the `response_callback`
function that is provided by the streams-poc-lib.

Have a look into the following documentation for more details:

* Interface of the streams-poc-lib: 
  [streams_poc_lib.h](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/components/streams-poc-lib/include/streams_poc_lib.h)
* Readme of the [streams-poc-lib](../sensor/streams-poc-lib/README.md)

The *AppServer Connector Mockup Tool* implements this process but uses a WIFI
socket connection instead of a LoRaWAN connection. For further details please
have a look into the
[*AppServer Connector Mockup Tool* README](../app-srv-connector-mock/README.md).

### IOTA Bridge Error Handling for lorawan-node Endpoints

The `--error-handling` argument described above can be used to specify
how internal errors of the *SUSEE Node* are handled when
the `lorawan-rest/binary_request` endpoint is used.

There are three
types of errors which are indicated with specific http
error status values:

| Error Type                     | HTTP Error Status           |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| *SUSEE Node* health error      | 503 - Service Unavailable   |
| Message send validation error  | 507 - Insufficient Storage  |
| Other error                    | 500 - Internal Server Error |


More details regarding these errors can be found in the following sections.

#### SUSEE-Node health error

Before any access to the IOTA Tangle is processed the *IOTA Bridge*
performs a service health check for the following services:
* *IOTA Node*
* *INX Collector*
* *MINIO* Object Database.

If any of these services is not healthy the
*IOTA Bridge* will return a `503 - Service Unavailable` http error
for a `/lorawan-rest` request.

#### Message send validation error

After a *Sensor* message has been send via the *IOTA Tangle*
the resulting block and it's POI must be archived by the *INX Collector*
in the *MINIO* object database. In case of errors the block might not
have been stored in the *MINIO* database.

To make sure that the *Sensor* message has been successfully send and the
resulting block exists in the *MINIO* database, the *IOTA Bridge* will validate
the block existence after each message send process.

In case this validation fails the behavior of the *IOTA Bridge* depends on
the `--error-handling` argument:

**--error-handling = always-return-errors**

The *IOTA Bridge* will return a
`507 - Insufficient Storage` http error
for a `/lorawan-rest` request.

Use this option if there are multiple redundant iota-bridge
instances run.

For production environments we recommend to run at least two *SUSEE Nodes*,
each providing an independently working *IOTA Bridge* instance.
The available instances can be run behind a load balancer or the
*Application Server Connector* can do a simple failover.

**--error-handling = buffer-messages-on-validation-errors**

The *IOTA Bridge* will buffer the *Sensor* message in its local SQLite database
and will try to send the message in the future.

The *IOTA Bridge* then will respond with a
`200 - OK` http status to the `/lorawan-rest` request.

This option is only suitable if only one iota-bridge
instance is run for test purposes.

### lorawan-node Endpoints
To allow [compressed Streams message](../sensor/README.md#deveuis-and-compressed-streams-messages)
usage, the *IOTA Bridge* stores LoRaWAN nodes (a.k.a. Sensors in the SUSEE project)
in its <a href="#caching-of-lorawan-deveuis-and-streams-channel-meta-data">local SQLite3 database</a>.

The stored Sensors can be managed by the following API endpoints.

##### CREATE_NODE
Create a *Sensor* entry in the caching database.

    POST/lorawan-node/{devEui} ? channel-id = {channelId}

    devEui:     LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    channelId:  Streams channel-id of the Sensor

Examples:<br>

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711?channel-id=12345678 <br>
  Status 200 OK
  
##### GET_NODE
Query data of a specific Sensor

    GET /lorawan-node/{devEui}
    
    devEui: LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    
Examples:<br>
Expecting that a Sensor with dev_eui 4711 is stored in the database.

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/9876 <br>
  Status 404 Not Found<br>
  Body:
  
        Not Found
        Description: lorawan_node not found
  
* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711 <br>
  Status 200 OK<br>
  Body:
  
      {"dev_eui":"4711","streams_channel_id":"12345678"}
  
##### IS_NODE_KNOWN
Query if a specific Sensor is known by the *IOTA Bridge*

    GET /lorawan-node/{devEui} ? exist
    
    devEui: LoRaWAN DevEUI of the Sensor
    
Examples:<br>
Expecting that a Sensor with dev_eui 4711 is stored in the database.

* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/9876?exist <br>
  Status 404 Not Found<br>
  Body:
  
        Not Found
        Description: lorawan_node not found
  
* http://127.0.0.1:50000/lorawan-node/4711?exist <br>
  Status 200 OK<br>
  Body:
  
      1

## Caching of LoRaWAN DevEUIs and Streams Channel Meta Data

As been descibed in the
[Sensor README](../sensor/README.md#deveuis-and-compressed-streams-messages)
compressed streams messages can be used to
reduce the LoRaWAN payload size.
The usage of compressed messages is only possible after one or more normal streams messages have
been send. The *IOTA Bridge* then learns which Streams Channel ID is used
by which *Sensor* where the *Sensor* is identified by its 64 bit LoraWAN DevEUI.
Additionally the [initialization count](../sensor/README.md#initialization-count)
is stored to allow [*Sensor Reinitialization* detection](../test/README.md#sensor-reinitialization).

The mapping of LoraWAN DevEUI to Streams Channel meta data is stored in a local SQLite3 database.
The database file "iota-bridge.sqlite3" is stored in the directory where the
*IOTA-Bridge* is started.

To review the data stored in the local SQLite3 database we recommend the
[DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) application.

## Use in Production

A network of LoRaWAN connected *Sensors* can consist of multiple millions of *Sensors*.
Given these *Sensors* would send messages every 15 minutes this leads to ~1.11 K request/s
per million users.

Despite all limitations that are caused by the available
[performance of the IOTA mainnet](https://blog.iota.org/chrysalis-iota-1-5-phase-1-now-live-on-mainnet-958ec4a4a415/),
this means that in a large scale scenario the *IOTA Bridge* would have to run in an industrial
web server tech stack including load-balancers, auto-scaling and so on.

In case [compressed streams messages](#caching-of-lorawan-deveuis-and-streams-channel-meta-data)
are used the *IOTA Bridge* needs an appropriately fast central or distributed
high availability data storage solution like (e.g. mariadb, postgres, mongodb, couchdb, ...).

Alternatively to handle thousands of requests per second using a high performance *IOTA Bridge*
the service could run on edge devices to handle only dozens or hundreds of requests in a specific
region resp. sector oft the LoRaWAN network.
