sensor/main-rust-esp-rs/README.md, before:

# ESP32 Sensor Application

A *Sensor* application for ESP32-C3 written in Rust using
[esp-rs/esp-idf-sys](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-sys) and the
[Espressif IDF SDK](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/about.html)

## About

This Sensor application can be build and flashed to ESP32-C3 platforms using tools
developed and provided by the [esp-rs](https://github.com/esp-rs) community. Its main purpose
is to test Rust code used for the [streams-poc-lib](../streams-poc-lib) without the limitations
of a foreign function interface.

## Prerequisites

To build the *ESP32 Sensor* application for ESP32 platforms (currently only ESP32-C3 provided), you need the following:

* If you want to flash the *Sensor* app on an ESP32-C3 device you need to install the Espressif software development environment.
  This is not needed if you only want to build the *ESP32 Sensor* app into an ELF file that can be flashed later on. 
  The Rust based build process for the *ESP32 Sensor* app uses its own copy of the needed Espressif tools that is
  automatically downloaded.<br>
  To install the Espressif software development environment please follow the instructions given in the
  [Prerequisites section of the Streams POC library](../streams-poc-lib#prerequisites). 
* Make sure your installed python3 version is >= 3.8 and pip is already installed
  (`sudo apt install python3-pip`).
* Check that your rustc version is >= 1.58.0 (see [Rust install hints in the main README](../../README.md#for-x86pc)).
* Use the stock nightly Rust compiler:
```bash
    rustup install nightly
    rustup default nightly
    # For future daily/weekly updates
    rustup update
```
* We also need rust-src to install cargo-espflash in one of the next steps
```bash
    rustup component add rust-src --toolchain nightly-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```
* Install clang version >= 12
```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install clang-12 --install-suggests
```
* Install [Cargo-Espflash](https://github.com/esp-rs/espflash)
```bash
    sudo apt-get install libudev-dev
    sudo apt-get install pkg-config
    cargo install cargo-espflash
    cargo install espflash
```
* Install [ldproxy](https://github.com/esp-rs/embuild/tree/master/ldproxy)
```bash
    cargo install ldproxy
```

The fundamentals of these build Prerequisites are taken from the
[Rust on ESP32 STD demo app](https://github.com/ivmarkov/rust-esp32-std-demo) project by Ivan Markov.
If you want to build the *ESP32 Sensor* for other ESP32 devices than ESP32-C3 you can try to follow the
instructions there to build for Extensa core based MCUs (ESP32-C3 is a Risc-V core based MCU).

## Build

All build steps must be executed in the main folder of this project (where this README is located):

Before building we need to specify the WiFi SSID, the WiFi password and the url of the used *IOTA-Bridge* as
environment variables. These variables will be hard coded into the *ESP32 Sensor*.
Currently this is the only way to initiate a socket connection to the ESP32.
This also means that currently you need to compile the ESP32 *Sensor* app yourself to test it:
```bash
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_WIFI_SSID="Susee Demo"
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_WIFI_PASS=susee-rocks
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_IOTA_BRIDGE_URL="http://192.168.0.100:50000"
```

If you have no ESP32-C3 device you can just start the build using cargo-espflash.
The ELF file will be created in the project folder.
```bash
cargo espflash save-image ESP32-C3 sensor-esp-rs.elf --release
```

If you have an ESP32-C3 device you can plug in the usb (or other serial bus) cable of your board
and start the build (with or without `--release`):
```bash
cargo espflash --monitor --partition-table="partitions.csv" --release
```
Given you already installed all needed drivers to access the serial port of your board, the port will be
detected automatically by cargo-espflash. After the application has been build and flashed the log output
of the *ESP32 Sensor* app is displayed on the console. This is controlled by the `--monitor` option used above. 

## CLI

The CLI documentation can be found in the [Sensor README](../#cli-of-the-sensor-applications)

Commit message:

Bugfix in management-console + descriptions for several tests
Test descriptions:
* manual sensor initialization
* send messages
* automated initialization for ESP32 and x86/PC sensor

sensor/main-rust-esp-rs/README.md, after:

# ESP32 Sensor Application

A *Sensor* application for ESP32-C3 written in Rust using
[esp-rs/esp-idf-sys](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-idf-sys) and the
[Espressif IDF SDK](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/about.html)

    ----------------------------------------------
    MAINTAINANCE MODE FOR ESP32 SENSOR APPLICATION
    ----------------------------------------------
    The ESP32 Sensor is currently only maintained but its functionality will not be
    extended to support tests for the latest versions of the SUSEE application protocol.

For tests on ESP32 devices, the
[*streams-poc-lib test application*](../streams-poc-lib)
is the recommended application.

The *ESP32 Sensor* crate is maintained to facilitate the software development
process of ESP32 platform specific code (contained in the 
[sensor-lib](../sensor-lib/src/esp_rs))
using cargo build utils. 

## About

This Sensor application can be build and flashed to ESP32-C3 platforms using tools
developed and provided by the [esp-rs](https://github.com/esp-rs) community. Its main purpose
is to test Rust code used for the [streams-poc-lib](../streams-poc-lib) without the limitations
of a foreign function interface.

## Prerequisites

To build the *ESP32 Sensor* application for ESP32 platforms (currently only ESP32-C3 provided), you need the following:

* If you want to flash the *Sensor* app on an ESP32-C3 device you need to install the Espressif software development environment.
  This is not needed if you only want to build the *ESP32 Sensor* app into an ELF file that can be flashed later on. 
  The Rust based build process for the *ESP32 Sensor* app uses its own copy of the needed Espressif tools that is
  automatically downloaded.<br>
  To install the Espressif software development environment please follow the instructions given in the
  [Prerequisites section of the Streams POC library](../streams-poc-lib#prerequisites). 
* Make sure your installed python3 version is >= 3.8 and pip is already installed
  (`sudo apt install python3-pip`).
* Check that your rustc version is >= 1.58.0 (see [Rust install hints in the main README](../../README.md#for-x86pc)).
* Use the stock nightly Rust compiler:
```bash
    rustup install nightly
    rustup default nightly
    # For future daily/weekly updates
    rustup update
```
* We also need rust-src to install cargo-espflash in one of the next steps
```bash
    rustup component add rust-src --toolchain nightly-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```
* Install clang version >= 12
```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install clang-12 --install-suggests
```
* Install [Cargo-Espflash](https://github.com/esp-rs/espflash)
```bash
    sudo apt-get install libudev-dev
    sudo apt-get install pkg-config
    cargo install cargo-espflash
    cargo install espflash
```
* Install [ldproxy](https://github.com/esp-rs/embuild/tree/master/ldproxy)
```bash
    cargo install ldproxy
```

The fundamentals of these build Prerequisites are taken from the
[Rust on ESP32 STD demo app](https://github.com/ivmarkov/rust-esp32-std-demo) project by Ivan Markov.
If you want to build the *ESP32 Sensor* for other ESP32 devices than ESP32-C3 you can try to follow the
instructions there to build for Extensa core based MCUs (ESP32-C3 is a Risc-V core based MCU).

## Build

All build steps must be executed in the main folder of this project (where this README is located):

Before building we need to specify the WiFi SSID, the WiFi password and the url of the used *IOTA-Bridge* as
environment variables. These variables will be hard coded into the *ESP32 Sensor*.
Currently this is the only way to initiate a socket connection to the ESP32.
This also means that currently you need to compile the ESP32 *Sensor* app yourself to test it:
```bash
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_WIFI_SSID="Susee Demo"
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_WIFI_PASS=susee-rocks
export SENSOR_MAIN_POC_IOTA_BRIDGE_URL="http://192.168.0.100:50000"
```

If you have no ESP32-C3 device you can just start the build using cargo-espflash.
The ELF file will be created in the project folder.
```bash
cargo espflash save-image ESP32-C3 sensor-esp-rs.elf --release
```

If you have an ESP32-C3 device you can plug in the usb (or other serial bus) cable of your board
and start the build (with or without `--release`):
```bash
cargo espflash --monitor --partition-table="partitions.csv" --release
```
Given you already installed all needed drivers to access the serial port of your board, the port will be
detected automatically by cargo-espflash. After the application has been build and flashed the log output
of the *ESP32 Sensor* app is displayed on the console. This is controlled by the `--monitor` option used above. 

## CLI

The CLI documentation can be found in the [Sensor README](../#cli-of-the-sensor-applications)
